# Mastermind Game

This is a Mastermind game developed in Python by Gabriela Araujo.

## Description

Mastermind is a guessing game where the player has a limited number of attempts to decipher a 4-digit number randomly generated by the computer. With each attempt provided, the player will receive feedback on the number of digits guessed correctly and the number of digits guessed in the correct position, to help him perfect his next attempt. The game ends when the player guesses the 4 digit number or exhausts all his attempts. 

## Game Features

- Single-player game mode
- Guess number of 4 digits, digits from 0 to 7.
- 10 attempts
- Feedback with each attempt made by the player: number of digits guessed correctly and number of digits guessed in the correct position.

## Extensions
#### 1. Three levels of difficulty:
Easy:

- Number of digits: 4 digits
- Number range: digits from 0 to 5 only. 
- Available attempts: 12 attempts.

Medium:
  
- Number of digits: 4 digits              
- Number range: digits from 0 to 7 only.  
- Available attempts: 10 attempts.

Hard:

 - Number of digits: 4 digits              
 - Number range: digits from 0 to 9 only.  
 - Available attempts: 8 attempts.

#### 2. Options multiplayer mode: 
Up to 4 players can play sharing the same laptop.
   
#### 3. Scoring system for players: 
The player receives a number of points for each number he/she guesses correctly and a number of points for each number he/she guesses in the correct position. 
The player also suffers a point penalty when his number of correct guesses decreases compared to his previous attempt. The amount of points awarded or deducted from the player's score depends on the difficulty level of the game. 

#### 4. Top 3 best players can be displayed (feature under development).


## Structure:

The project uses the requests library for random number generation. The code is divided into functions that handle different aspects of the game to ensure its proper functioning and works with global variables to manage the state of the game.

### Main global variables:

- random_number: Stores the random number that the player must guess.
- winner: Boolean that indicates if a player has won or not.
- all_correct: Boolean that indicates if all the numbers are correct or not.
- max_attempts: Stores the maximum number of attempts allowed for a player according to the difficulty level.

### Main functions:

- menu_game(): Displays the main menu of the game and manages the player's options.
- game(): Main game logic including getting the random number, player turns, and managing attempts and scores.
- reset(): Resets all global variables to the default value, to allow new games.
- get_number(): Gets a random number depending on the difficulty level.
- validate_input(): Validates that the player input is a 4-digit number.
- evaluate_player_number(): Evaluates the number entered by the player and calculates the result.
- add_score(): Calculates and stores the score of the player.
- display_score_player(): Displays the player's score.

## Requirements
To run the game successfully you must have Python installed on your system. Also make sure you have the requests library installed. 

## Installation
1.- Download the code: You can download the source code from the repository or clone the repository using Git:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Gabyara237/MastermindGame.git


2.- Install Python: If you don't have Python installed yet, you can download it from python.org.

3.- Install pip.

4.- Install the requests library: Open a terminal or command line and run the following command:

    ```bash
    pip install requests

## Run
Once you have completed the installation, you can run the Mastermind game by following these steps:

1.- Navigate to the directory where you saved the game code.

2.- Open a terminal or command line in that directory.

3.- Run the Python script:

    ```bash
    python game.py


And that's it! 

### Enjoy playing Mastermind, either alone or in company from your terminal!.


